#OpenBCI Narcolepsy
BAT (Brain AssistanT) is there for you to provide predictive insight into epileptic and narcoleptic events. With our open API you will be able to connect to an ecosystem of apps and services that integrate with BAT to offer new, customized experiences. Version 1.0 of BAT was made my Team MobGem lab, 26th June 2016.

#Why
We were aiming to make a multimodal, integrative measurement tool of physiological signals that can have a wide application in today´s society. As part of this project we came up with the idea that, in case of an undiagnosed illness, physicians would preferably have as much data as possible that can help them make a correct diagnosis. Instead of restricting a person´s movement by letting them reside in a hospital bed, our aim was to make this entire process mobile.
Additionally, the idea was to integrate this into a wearable, which would disguise the measurement equipment and to prevent stigmatization due to your appearance.

Besides using physiological data for diagnosing patients, it could also help existing patients in increasing their safety and mobility in everyday life. The system could provide accurate, real time information that could be sent to relatives or emergency services in case of the detection of an emergency through the wearable device. Additionally, integration with other systems could be a realistic possibility. One example of this could be the integration of the system in cars that have an autopilot available, such as the Tesla Model S. This would be applicable to narcolepsy patients, but also to epilepsy patients, that can lose consciousness behind the wheel. The system will then register the loss ofconsciousness via the change in physiological signals and take over control and eventually steer the car to safety.

This device can be applicable to a broad target audience. There are an estimated 80.000 people in the Netherlands at any time that are in treatment for epilepsy (Wallace et al., 1998) and an estimated 30 new epilepsy patients per year on a population of 100.000 (Kotsoupolos et al., 2005). In case of one epileptic seizure, a person is restricted from driving for three to six months. In case of two seizure events within a one year period, a person is restricted from driving for the period of one year (Cbr.nl, 2016). In case of narcolepsy, there are an estimated 20-50 people suffering from narcolepsy on a population of 100.000 (Ahmed & Thorpy, 2010). In the United Kingdom, people with narcolepsy can be allowed to drive after assessment of their condition by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA). They will be given a license for a short period of time if their condition is assessed to not endanger themselves or other road users. However, in the event that they do suffer from a narcolepsy attack our wearable device can be a literal life safer.

The wearable that we are planning to use is a cap integrated with electrodes, to measure alpha waves (8-12 Hz) from the occipital lobe, as has been used before by Tsai et al. (2009) to measure drowsiness in drivers. Alpha waves registered from EEG equipment are associated with concentration and BAT, your digital brain assistant 3 relaxation and in case a person closes his/her eyes, it shows a peak in the alpha spectrum.

Additionally, muscle tension has been shown to decrease during sleep. Our device will also have an EMG capability to measure the muscle tension of the patient and to ensure that, in case of loss of this muscle tension, a signal is being sent to the device and appropriate action can be taken.
